My name is Richard and I've been designing and developing software for a number of years. I wrote my first program when I was in high school, during a business class. We had a Radio Shack TSR-80 and my first program printed a derogitory remark about one of my classmates to the screen. Of course I was just kidding around and he was sitting right next to me when I wrote it. Since then I've been hooked on computers and writing software. During my college year I taught myself how to write C programs using an Aztec compiler on my Amiga 1000 when I wasn't playing text based RPGs. I then did something any geek would do, I joined the Army. I spent 10 years in the Army, well actually the United States Cavalry. About as far away from computers as you can get. After I retired medically from the Army I started working for MCI. At MCI, before WorldCom bought them out, I wrote telephony software everybody loves. "Press 1 to go here, press 2 to go there". That's where I learned about the Software Development Life Cycle, and met a great man named Hank. Hank taught me a lot about designing, developing and testing software. Too bad he wasn't my manager. After MCI I went to Technical Support for the United States Olympic Center. This was just before the year 2000 and we were upgrading all the systems to become Y2K compliant. While working at the USOC I went back to college to get my Bachelor's degreee. This time I actually studied Computer Science. One of my math instructors at Colorado Technical University mentioned that his company, Lockheed Martin needed database designers and developers. After talking with him about it and with the hiring manager I got the job and have been working for Lockheed since. So what's this website about? This website is about my keeping current with the computer software trends. Right now, as far as I can tell, the big thing is distributed applications. Specificly internet distributed applications. Most of the work is done on a big server and you and I connect to the server to get information, or to get something done. I think the next big thing, if it's not already, will be mobile applications. Basically the same idea as internet applications, except you connect to the server using your mobile phone, PDA, or internet device. So that's what I'm going to be focused on. Building applications where most of the work is done on a big server and you connect over the internet. My wife also has a some pages here and you can get to them in the links to the left. You can also get to all my prototype applications in the links to the left. There is some earlier work I've done using style sheets, not too impressive, but I'm learning. There is my Music Collection application. And my newest is my 2006 NFL Schedule Application.
